last year when I told my boyfriend I was
finally ready to try a single-player
game that didn't involve dancing plastic
guitars or Hamtaro he was like supposed
to stay with these operational programs
first it's just a little more fun combat
training and cast me into the ocean as
bait for Objectivist crackheads you said
this wasn't a spooky there I fell hook
line and sinker for the emotional depths
that gaming can reach hey idiot I was
baptized in rap shows bloody waters and
upon resurface I saw the light next he
gave me half-life 2 which I also really
enjoyed until the boat part gave me the
bubble guts
and I gave up to go lay down but now on
the eve of half-life slide from a
13-year long slumber my boyfriend said
the two experienced the first two games
because it will make all the difference
when I watch him play Alex later this
month so this isn't a review of
half-life 1 & 2 this is a review of what
it's like to wake up in this video was
sponsored by Skillshare before valve
software made their most popular
products such as the iTunes of PC gaming
and the Las Vegas of underage gambling
they made something called videogames
their debut title was half-life released
in 1998 making it the oldest game
featured on this channel by four days
and similar to ocarina of time for
instance instead of creating another
first-person shooter that starts with
something boring like slaying demons or
killing Nazis valve invented a whole new
genre called first-person take the bus
to work
passengers opportunity the intro to this
game is an actual two and a half hour
commute I feel like I'm at Universal
Studios on the tram ride yeah jaws is
gonna come and somehow watching my
boyfriend live out Gordon Freeman's
morning routine was one of the best
introductions to a fictional world I've
ever seen for five whole minutes the
player is just on a rail with Black Mesa
inbound staring out the window as a
hazard course of anomalous materials
passes them by instilling apprehension
about what questionable ethics are in
practice at the office complex they're
headed for and what unforeseen
consequences are headed for them the
tram ride sets the stage so perfectly
that my sentence describing it was
mostly written with the titles of
half-life's chapters
the best part about the tram ride is at
the end though when my guy Barney does
keypad noises with his mouth why is his
mouth coming when he pressed the buttons
was he making the button sounds yeah
unfortunately this game's original tone
may have been lost on me because I'm
pretty sure the original tone wasn't
slapstick comedy but these grandpa
graphics are hilarious greetings like
consider the Black Mesa incident which
was a cataclysmic event that ended the
world as we know it when Gordon Freeman
triggered a resonance cascade now
consider that as far as I could tell the
whole thing was caused by a hunk of
cheese oh that's what happens when you
put cheese in there resonance cascade
and the atmospheric horror that pooped
my boyfriend's pants in 1998 is about as
scary now is riding the Haunted Mansion
at Disneyland Oh Oscar the Grouch I
could not stop laughing at these NPCs
because there's only about four of them
they get copy and pasted everywhere so
you'll find that same dumpster Einstein
also being murdered an event only to
turn around and see this after the fifth
time someone dies it's hard to care
anymore because even if my guy Barney
got eaten oh man now we're down to like
ten Barneys
we'd probably find him just chillin
somewhere thirty seconds later the
orange in that suit really brings out
your eyes maybe we could catch a movie
later
however the funniest part was that
despite all the guff he gave me about
getting to motion sick for half-life 2
my boyfriend got to motion sick for
half-life one I actually don't feel very
good
you need to vom he tried to hack her man
the field of view and stuck on a ginger
chew but something about low-res
textures on a modern screen combined
with the mach speed at which Gordon
Freeman absolutely sends it can be
nauseating
because you spit out the ginger I wanted
to show you the original but I think you
see ya
got the bubble guts fortunately we
weren't the only ones who thought
half-life could use a graphical glow up
for 16 years a valve approved fan-made
remake was in development and then very
serendipitously got released during the
making of this video
black mesa isn't silly at all that's not
cheese
you're not Barney Black Mesa makes you
feel like a scientist who was so
preoccupied with whether or not they
could did you start to think of the shy
I think the reason Gordon doesn't talk
is that the only believable reaction to
messing up this bad at work would be
mother almost to the surface man I'm
dying in this dumps underground dump job
bugs flying in my mouth scared to pee
thank God with the nutsack I get it now
though half life may have grandpa
graphics compared to modern video games
but that's only because half-life is the
granddaddy of modern video games after a
fresh coat of paint
it still has a more immersive setting
more seamless progression and more
creative gameplay than a lot of what I
see today as a backseat gamer the large
variety of believable environments
filled with realistic puzzles and clever
platforming not only kept me involved
but kept me interested when the shooting
did start and even if it was just an
endlessly violent constantly loud
first-person shooter the gunplay alone
is a refreshing subversion of this genre
in 2020 so what do people think in 98
hey what was half-life like in the 90s
what was it awesome
it blew is tits off dude but you know
what doesn't need a graphical glow up to
blow your tits off the greatest sequel
of all time half-life 2
[Music]
I'm in awe at the size of this
monumental landmark in gaming history
I'm not kissing your butt right now it's
biblical oh you get off g-man's Magic
School Bus
two decades in the future and look
around like what the hell happened here
then you remember oh right the cheese
now there's alien soldiers everywhere
and one of them goes and anyone who
played this game in 2004 picked up that
can and said Gordon's new ability to
pick up and move objects as well as
utilize their size and weight to
overcome obstacles with frickin
mechanical engineering is cool enough as
it is when the gravity gun shows up he
basically becomes the one the problem is
my boyfriend used it for most of the
game so for most of the game I couldn't
see because there was garbage in my face
such as this file cabinet that shielded
him from sniper fire you like that move
not once during the first half-life did
I think hmm you know what this game
needs a big credenza in the middle of
the screen now that is a beautiful
credenza don't throw that okay but I did
like seeing how far we could take this
watermelon he had a beautiful rind and a
rare soul
this detailed physics simulation driving
the gameplay is fueled by the equally
incredible artwork animations and
narrative that propellent everything the
player goes through every location the
player goes through and everyone the
player goes through are unforgettable
like reconnecting with old friends
[Music]
escaping city 17 meeting Alex Vince
Lamar might couple with your head the
airboat getting bubble guts on the
airboat Raven home we don't go there
anymore
going to Raven home playing chicken with
the Train
oh the floor is lava befriending the
antlions than making them die for you go
get I'm hailey bugs here's the plan if
he's shooting me oh ok they're dead
inspiring the citizens of city 17
than making them die for you okay well
those random sightings of g-man like
he's a creepy Where's Waldo and most of
all my boyfriend's uncontainable joy
whenever he knew that half-life was
about to make some memories not the
gravity gun no didn't break it
oh is it different now is it specialized
what does it do now in conclusion after
watching my boyfriend play the half-life
series I was inspired to play portal for
the first time which I beat all by
myself then immediately played portal 2
single-player story for the first time
which I beat all by myself all I can say
is are you freaking mic eating Gabe you
the sickest games bro the games are out
of control everyone knows that so I just
have one question about half-life 3 and
portal 3 now I understand the pain in my
boyfriend's voice when he saw the
half-life Alex announcement and said
we did
so while we all wait just a little bit
longer I bet you don't really like to
see a word from our sponsor Skillshare
is an online learning community for
creatives where millions come together
to take the next step in their creative
journey listen nothing gets your big
brain going like a room that just feels
good to be in make sure you're feeling
your best when you're home with Lauren
Cox's class interior design basics
simple steps to your perfect space the
great thing about Skillshare is that you
can take classes that fit your schedule
and there are so many to choose from
with real projects and support from
fellow creatives an annual subscription
is less than 10 bucks a month but if
you're in the first 500 of our
subscribers to click the link in the
description you'll get a two month free
trial of a premium membership so you can
take the first step to accomplishing
your goals and exploring your creativity
so take the next step in your creative
journey and click that link in the
description for your free trial
[Music]
[Applause]